---
layout: default
---

<!-- Note: This file is automatically generated from source code comments. Changes made in this file will be overridden. -->

<h1 id="function-eigs">Function eigs <a href="#function-eigs" title="Permalink">#</a></h1>

Compute eigenvalues and optionally eigenvectors of a square matrix.
The eigenvalues are sorted by their absolute value, ascending, and
returned as a vector in the `values` property of the returned project.
An eigenvalue with algebraic multiplicity k will be listed k times, so
that the returned `values` vector always has length equal to the size
of the input matrix.

The `eigenvectors` property of the return value provides the eigenvectors.
It is an array of plain objects: the `value` property of each gives the
associated eigenvalue, and the `vector` property gives the eigenvector
itself. Note that the same `value` property will occur as many times in
the list provided by `eigenvectors` as the geometric multiplicity of
that value.

If the algorithm fails to converge, it will throw an error –
in that case, however, you may still find useful information
in `err.values` and `err.vectors`.

Note that the 'precision' option does not directly specify the _accuracy_
of the returned eigenvalues. Rather, it determines how small an entry
of the iterative approximations to an upper triangular matrix must be
in order to be considered zero. The actual accuracy of the returned
eigenvalues may be greater or less than the precision, depending on the
conditioning of the matrix and how far apart or close the actual
eigenvalues are. Note that currently, relatively simple, "traditional"
methods of eigenvalue computation are being used; this is not a modern,
high-precision eigenvalue computation. That said, it should typically
produce fairly reasonable results.


<h2 id="syntax">Syntax <a href="#syntax" title="Permalink">#</a></h2>

```js
math.eigs(x, [prec])
math.eigs(x, {options})
```

<h3 id="parameters">Parameters <a href="#parameters" title="Permalink">#</a></h3>

Parameter | Type | Description
--------- | ---- | -----------
`x` | Array &#124; Matrix | Matrix to be diagonalized
`opts` | number &#124; BigNumber &#124; OptsObject | Object with keys `precision`, defaulting to config.epsilon, and `eigenvectors`, defaulting to true and specifying whether to compute eigenvectors. If just a number, specifies precision.

<h3 id="returns">Returns <a href="#returns" title="Permalink">#</a></h3>

Type | Description
---- | -----------
{values: Array &#124; Matrix, eigenvectors?: Array&lt;EVobj&gt;}} Object containing an array of eigenvalues and an array of {value: number &#124; BigNumber, vector: Array &#124; Matrix | objects. The eigenvectors property is undefined if eigenvectors were not requested.


<h3 id="throws">Throws <a href="#throws" title="Permalink">#</a></h3>

Type | Description
---- | -----------


<h2 id="examples">Examples <a href="#examples" title="Permalink">#</a></h2>

```js
const { eigs, multiply, column, transpose, matrixFromColumns } = math
const H = [[5, 2.3], [2.3, 1]]
const ans = eigs(H) // returns {values: [E1,E2...sorted], eigenvectors: [{value: E1, vector: v2}, {value: e, vector: v2}, ...]
const E = ans.values
const V = ans.eigenvectors
multiply(H, V[0].vector)) // returns multiply(E[0], V[0].vector))
const U = matrixFromColumns(...V.map(obj => obj.vector))
const UTxHxU = multiply(transpose(U), H, U) // diagonalizes H if possible
E[0] == UTxHxU[0][0]  // returns true always

// Compute only approximate eigenvalues:
const {values} = eigs(H, {eigenvectors: false, precision: 1e-6})
```


<h2 id="see-also">See also <a href="#see-also" title="Permalink">#</a></h2>

[inv](inv.html)
